Well,
let's see. What were the benefits of being
president of the student body? You didn't get a
scholarship. Just the opportunity to work with
some of the best on campus and the opportunity to
get exposure to the other universities. Those
were the purposes. Alright, as you look back on it,
of what are you most proud from that year as student
body president?
Or student senate president, I should say.
Probably our work with SCONA and with the other
universities and having the opportunity to meet
them.
We didn't have any major campus turmoil that we
dealt with that stands out that I remember. What
was your impression of Earl Rudder then as the new
president? Well, he became president the year
after I, he was vice president.
I knew him more as, someone who we babysit for than
someone who was president. I know that there was a,
at that time, concern over what kind of leadership
he would provide not being an academician. but
surprised most people at the qualitative
decisions. A lot of the decisions, of course,
weren't known even to the community, the faculty
staff, Things were run different back then. Was it
pretty clearly understood that he was going to
become the president soon? It was pretty clearly
understood that he was boss. Okay, that's what I,
that's what I thought. It didn't matter what you
called him. He made, he made many of the decisions
that were important. And that if you didn't agree
with him, you needed to go to TU or SMU or TCU,
somewhere else. Different world. There were no
incidents that caused you and other student
leaders to get called in and say, here's a problem,
you all solve it? No. I don't ever remember
visiting either the president's office or the
vice president, any administrator's office. We
worked with Dean Penberthy on campus issues. Who
were the other key student leaders? The corps
commander. Corps staff. Don Cloud, as seniors,
was the corps commander. Gary Pepper was
president of the senior class. Joe Buescher was
editor of the battalion. Rod Stepp was the editor
of the Aggieland. These were people that you
worked with on campus problems, solving them,
that you saw frequently in meetings or sessions.
Let's see. your whole four years give some
examples of some good bulls, some pranks, some
jokes that you were aware of. Well, of course, the
biggest activity were drowned outs, either where
you would pick an individual, junior or senior,
and in a few cases sophomores. And there were
certainly tricks of not getting caught and of
doing the job extremely well. Every now and then we
had Babo bombs but not very often and usually two or
three times a year usually during dead week just
before finals in the fall and spring you'd have a
the whole core area around Duncan or around
Speedy's, every dorm would get involved in these
huge water fights. The whole, everything. Where
would they take place? Out there in the quadrangle
in front of the dorms. Throwing? In the units,
whenever you drowned somebody out, you'd drown
them out in their room. And usually that occurred
when they had gone to sleep and you'd take about
three freshmen with their waist back waste
baskets full of water and dump them and then lock
the door so he couldn't get out. So you'd dump it on
him in bed? In bed. It wasn't one of these where you
leaned it against the door? No, no. You dumped it on
him and then you had someone with a fuck stick on the
door and when you'd get out then they'd lock the
door where he couldn't get out and you'd go back to
your room and try to make sure that nobody could
trace to who had done it. But the dead week, we'd
always have everybody would be involved. I mean,
water would be flying everywhere. Most of it
occurred out in the quadrangle rather than in the
dorms. But you'd have every faucet on that first
floor running full steam and people in line to fill
up wastebaskets. Now, the Babbo bomb, was that
normally rolled into the room, open the door and
roll it in there? Yeah. Either that or they'd walk
it in and light it in the room, depending on whether
the individual was asleep or awake. Okay. Did you
normally, was a Babel bomb used while the person
was in the room? Or did you ever do it? Sometimes
either way. Sometimes you just ruin it. Your
objective was to really mess up the room. Other
times it was to get a rise out of the individual. And
you always were asleep. You wouldn't do it if they
were sitting up studying. Did anybody ever put an
animal in somebody else's room in your days? Oh,
yeah. What? That was the only situation for us old
country boys had the upper hand on kids from
Houston. because they hadn't been around snakes
and armadillos and the like and so there was a great
deal of concern about how much damage one of those
animals could do if you weren't really familiar
with them so it was not uncommon to put a snake in
between the sheets. What variety of snake? Well,
generally garden snakes because even though we
were boastful, we weren't dumb. We didn't have a
rattlesnake. I had a freshman, Ed Hill. In fact, he
worked down here before he passed away here about
three years ago. But Ed was a herpetology major,
wildlife sciences major, and he kept snakes in
gallon jars in his room. And nothing was more
exciting than for Ed to walk out in the hall and
announce that he couldn't find his rattlesnake.
Everybody got bricks and put up beneath their
doors where there wouldn't be any opening at all.
But we'd just take and slip those snakes in between
the sheets. and then just quietly wake, tried to
not be observable till the light went out in the
room and then just listen. They'd always found
that snake. Sometimes it took a while for people to
slide in bed before that snake moved or before they
contacted. But you could always tell the minute
they realized what it was or that it was something.
Where would you all get the snakes? No, they were
all around out here on campus, Brightest River.
You'd just catch them. And you mentioned
armadillo. Did they ever put an armadillo in
somebody's room? Yeah. What else? Those were the
two primary targets with snakes and armadillos.
Did anybody ever put a cow or a sheep in anybody's
room? I'm sure that happened. Not that I recall in
our outfits. Because I had one old-timer in one of
the Northgate. They put a cow in somebody's room on
Friday, and it was there all weekend on the fourth
floor. And he said, you think it was hard getting
that cow up. Wait till you try to get that cow down,
where the head shifts that center of gravity.
Let's see. That was before elevators. Yes, yes,
yes. In any dog. Was there a fish day in your era? We
had a fish day that we were essentially to treat
sophomores like freshmen and vice versa.
Describe how that went as you remember. Well, we
knew that that was only one day, so we never did get
really wild about the treatment of sophomores. It
usually had to do with hitting braces and... doing
push-ups and simple stuff because we didn't have
the opportunity to get even it never occurred
because if you're a freshman the sophomores
junior and senior were going to always be ahead of
you now a year ahead of you was a young man named ray
bowen yes he was over in the air force and i don't
really remember ray except on student senate He
was a senior when I was a junior on the student
center. What kind of a student did he seem to be?
Ray was serious and he was an engineer so I didn't
have a lot of contact with him and don't have a lot of
memory other than I did remember Ray Bowen when it
was announced that he was named president. I had to
go to my A-land to recall what he looked like. Were
there any other, you mentioned some, who were some
of the student celebrities, people that would
later become well-known that were here when you
were? Well, of course, Davis Ford was president of
the association. Bully Fernandez was president
of the association. He's my roommate. You called
Bully? Well, Raul. No, but no, but Bully? Bully,
yep. That's what, I didn't know he had another name
until we were out of school. Where'd you get the
Bully? Can't tell you. It came here with him. Oh,
really? Okay, all right. Whenever, he was Fish
Fernandez for a year, and then he was Bully for
three years. And he was your roommate for?
Sophomore and junior year. Right. How were
Hispanics treated during those years? We didn't
know the difference. I didn't know what a Hispanic
was. I knew he was from Laredo. I figured he was a
little darker than I was because they got more sun
down there. But Bully was just another Aggie.
In general, describe the student body. They were
all male, but They were from what kind of towns,
what kind of families and income? Probably over
half of them came from small towns. You still had a
significant number of kids from Dallas, Fort
Worth, and Houston. Don't remember that many from
San Antone, Austin. Over half of our kids in our
outfit were from small towns. Bullets from
Laredo, we had two kids from Mount Pleasant, from
Wheeler, Wellington, three of the kids from
Gatesville. And most of them from parents that had
not gone to college? I would say the majority were.
Were? Not college graduates. Most of them came and
A bunch of them came, I mean they had no idea when
they graduated from high school they were even
going to college. Many of them decided in August
because they couldn't find a job or they couldn't
find anything else to do or someone suggested that
they might want to try A&M, just showed up at the
door last August. And what did you and your buddies
assume were, in fact, the rules about classroom
behavior? I know there weren't any written rules,
but what did y'all? Well,
I don't know that we ever thought about it because
you went to class and you listened and the staff
were kind of like mom and dad. Did y'all ever do any
pranks in class? No. Not until we got, until I
became a graduate student, and then things
loosened up some. But there was a certain element
of fear. How often did you go to class? How often did
you go to class? Every time it met. Unless I had flu,
we had a flu epidemic my sophomore year. Did you go
to Quack Shack? Yeah, that's where the military
science was. Where was it? Well, it was over in the
old barracks on the north part of campus. Describe
it physically. They were two-story barracks.
They were tar paper outside and wood holding the
tar paper from falling in on itself. And you had
these wooden chairs with the arm where you set your
books and did your note taking. Who was the, do you
remember the doctors?
Oh, you're talking about the hospital. I'm
talking about where military science was held.
Oh, no, no, no. Okay. Quack Shack was the hospital,
so to speak, over at where they have the services
building now. And it was a two-story, I believe,
brick building. And I was over there probably
twice the four years I was here. I heard a lot of
stories about it. I didn't spend any time over at
Black Shack. Who was the doctor, do you remember?
Don't remember. And you could, if you were sick
enough, you could spend the night there. Oh, yes.
They had probably 12 or 13 beds, and whenever a flu
or something like that hit, you were taken care of
in the dorm. The COs and the first sergeant would go
over and get medicine and bring it and distribute
it. Your... fish your sophomore buddies would
bring food to the dorm from the mess hall and in a
week you'd either die or get well
but it it wasn't a large place that could handle a
lot of people and I can remember the two times that I
can remember going over there of spending well
over an hour sitting and waiting to see anyone So,
it was, it wasn't a place that you couldn't wait
until the next time to go back. Alright. Now,
during these four busy years for you, did you
continue to work? Yes. How much? How many hours?
About 20 hours during the summers, during the
terms of fall and spring, and then full time in the
summer. In entomology? Yes. Worked at the lab for
two years, and then I, in 1957, was hired as
extension entomologist at Lubbock. Guy
Carpenter, who was the area entomologist out
there, was killed in a airplane. Right, now you're
doing this in the summer and then come back? I was
located in the basement of the AG building on the
Tech campus where the district office was and
worked with the county agents and the whole High
Plains and Rolling Plains area on cotton insects
primarily, wrote a newsletter. Here on campus,
how much did your pay increased during those four
years?
I think about 75 cents is what I made when I was a
senior. From 17 cents to about 75 cents. The thing
that I learned later when I went to work full-time,
now I just worked summers as extension
neurologist out there. Danes used me just to fill
in during the heat of the cotton season. That's
when everybody was under pressure. but I got my
first full-time job as extension entomologist
area entomologist at Lubbock June 1 of 1960 and I
didn't know it until I my
dad passed away and I was going through some of his
records and I was hired for more than he made and he
was working for the same organization and had been
for 20 something years, since 42, and this was in
1960, 28 years. And what was your starting pay? Six
thousand dollars, 500 a month, which I thought was
just unheard of. And we got Three cents a mile for a
mileage, and our per dime for our lodging and meals
was six dollars a day. Sounds like a cushy deal.
That's right. But you know, we got by. Now, let's
back up. Did you meet a special young lady during
your student days here? I met a bunch of them. Met my
wife. I had known her, but we had not dated in high
school. And she was at OCW, and we started dating
when I was a junior here at A&M. And then she
transferred to TU. Okay. And how would you visit
with her after she gets to Austin? About once a
month. Well, of course, in the fall, football
game. she would come over here sometimes with
friends of hers that were in the same dorm and
sometimes on a bus and that was an experience I
understand I never rode the bus but there was a bus
that went from Austin down through the bottom
through Brenham and all the country roads and as I
understand it was driven by a fellow that had grown
up down here in the Bravis bottoms and enjoyed
telling people about every tree and every
historical site and even would stop at his house
and go in and have his supper and then come back out
and finish the trip. When you were dating this
special young lady, where would y'all go on Friday
and Saturday nights here? There were activities
here. There wasn't any place, but if it was a
football game, we went to the football game. There
was usually some kind of a dance or activity at the
MSC after it. And that's where we went. Alright, if
you wanted to go somewhere after the dance,
to eat, to have refreshments where? That was very
simple. There was Zarape's, if you wanted Mexican
food, and there was Werman's. Zarape's was over
here east of the campus near the water tower. There
used to be a water tower there. Werman's was
downtown Bryan, had chicken fried steaks. And
then there was a seafood place over on Old College,
and I can't recall what the name of that. Were there
any places that young people might have gone that
were a little bit on the edge of respectability?
I'm sure there were. Was Uncle Ed's still going?
Yes, Uncle Ed's existed. I had never been to Uncle
Ed's, so I don't know whether that was a place that
you just went and got beer like across the Bryce
River Bridge. So you didn't take your date there? I
had never been there. Did you ever go to Whiskey
Bridge across the? I knew where it was because
that's where I work. Entomology had experiments
down there, so I'd always pass it just as you went
across the bridge on your right. What did it look
like from there? It looked like an old shack. And as
far as you know, what did they sell other than
whiskey? As far as I knew, that's all they sold. It
wasn't a convenience store, was it, where you
could buy bread and bologna? No, no. I never was in
there. Because it was still, when we got here, it
was still there. I was trying to remember when
Arnold's was built. I have eaten at Arnold's. in
that old red brick building. I think it was here
during that time. Barbecue. But they couldn't
handle it about eight at one time, I think, if you
sit down. All right, did you and your buddies ever
go to the clay pits swimming? No, but we went to the
river, Brass River. That's where they would have
beer bus units. Describe that. Well, they'd just
get a bunch of beer and ice it down, and we'd go out
there and raise hell. And how would you all get
there? Usually two or three people would have
vehicles. And you'd fill it up with a... Everybody
would pile in the back end of a truck. And would
there be any females in the group? And what did they
wear when they went swimming? Nothing. Their
underwear. So they would wear their skivvies?
Some wore underwear. And some skinny dipped?
Yeah. How drunk did people get? Some of them had to
be carried back. Was there care given to who was the
driver on the road back? Yes. We had designated
drivers. But you didn't use that phrase then. No,
there were people who didn't drink.
And this would happen normally on a? Saturday?
Usually a Friday night. A Friday night, okay.
Because football games were Saturday, and nearly
always it was a Friday night, at least our outfit.
Let's see. MSC, what role did the MSC play in a
student's life during those years? It was the only
place that had activities, a piano, bowling
alley. It I don't know what the Y used to be like. In
fact, I've never seen the swimming pool
supposedly in the basement of the Y. Did have those
B meetings at the Y. But the MSC was the living room
of campus. Everything happened there because you
didn't have other options of places to go and the
campus theater was where movies were shown and the
MSC is where everything else happened. Now did a
student goof off, play tricks, act up in the MSC?
No. That was strictly done in your room or in the
core area. And by your day, the YMCA was not a very
significant student activity center. Not at all.
The MSC, I think, opened probably about 51 or 52,
and it was well established, and it was air
conditioned. What about... That's what most
people remember about the MSC. It was the only cool
place on campus. And by and large, sophomores did
not pick on freshmen in the MSC, did they? No.
Wasn't that kind of an often? That was a given. in
the MSC that everybody was, you still spoke, you
still hit a brace, that just happened naturally,
but there was no, essentially no hazing on the MSC.
Now Guyon Hall, what did you all go to Guyon Hall
for? Well that was where all of your other
activities, that's where you had campus wide
meetings, that's where the president would
address all of the students, they would have plays
there, they would bring in entertainment, Do you
remember any important entertainers during your
four years?
Not really. We didn't have those activities, but
maybe one a year. Let's see, Eisenhower's visit is
not during your years, is it? No, it was a little
later. No important politics. What about Scona?
Did you all have some notable... speakers they
were at that point in time notable you recognize
the names as people who were in the military in
politics or in big business at this time I couldn't
tell you who was there in our freshman through
senior years
I remember during my early years of being a Skona
advisor, we had Senator Albert Gore of Tennessee.
Well, he has a relationship with the present day.
Yes, I don't remember his mentioning a son at all
when he was here. Let's see, did you go to movies in
Gine Hall? Yes, on Saturdays and probably
Sundays. Were you all shown We've Never Been
Licked? It showed several times. And what did you
and your buddies think of it? Well, we were
impressed. It was a good movie.
Academically,
were there any cush courses that people took just
for grade points, easy courses? Yeah, there were
some that had the reputation of being easy
courses. What were they?
Did you all talk about Dr. Dan, the grade point man?
I've heard that phrase. I couldn't even tell you
where he taught. Dan Russell, rural sociology.
Rural sociology. What courses did athletes take?
Were there supposedly some? I assume that they
took the same courses we did, but I don't recall
that. All right, and you were here during the Bear
Bryant years. Right. He was in his second year here
in the fall of 55 when we came. He'd been here one
year. What impression did Bear Bryant make on you
students? He wasn't very sociable. He had
breakfast every morning at 6 over there at that
drugstore. At Southgate? At Northgate. Oh, at
Northgate. Right where Lupo's is now, but there
was a drug store on that corner. And he would come in
and they would always have a paper and there was one
seat that was, quote, his. Nobody, if you sat
there, you were asked to move that this is Coach
Bryant's. He would come in, pick up the paper, they
knew what he wanted, they'd bring his breakfast
over, and he would sit there and drink coffee, and
you could walk right up to him and say, howdy, and
you didn't exist. He was, as a student, and as I
remember it, he was very unfriendly. Were you
acquainted with any of the famous members of the
football team? Who were some of them? Ma Hamilton
served meals, family style. And I don't know if it
was suggested or recommended that they eat over
there, but Krueger, John David Crowe, Murray
Trimble, who was one-armed, ate their supper
there. Ma Hamilton was a real small lady. She
probably was 4'6", 4'7", very spirited. But after
eating, I can remember they would, I don't know
whether it was their responsibility or they just
enjoyed it or if it was fun for them, but they would
wash dishes. One of them beat the sink washing
dishes and the cupboard was on the other side of the
kitchen. And they would throw the glasses and the
plates across the room until Ma came back. So one
would wash, one would rinse, and one would dry.